# arXiv

**[PDF] Violet to near-infrared optical addressing of spin pairs in hexagonal boron nitride**
*P Singh, IO Robertson, SC Scholten, AJ Healey, H Abe… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
Optically addressable solid-state spins are an important platform for practical quantum technologies. Van der Waals material hexagonal boron nitride (hBN) is a promising host as it contains a wide variety of optical emitters, but thus far …

**[PDF] A Toffoli Gadget for Magnetic Tunnel Junctions Boltzmann Machines**
*D Chen, AC Wyporek, P Chailloleau, ASE Valli… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
Magnetic Tunnel Junctions (MTJs) are of great interest for non-conventional computing applications. The Toffoli gate is a universal reversible logic gate, enabling the construction of arbitrary boolean circuits. Here, we present a proof-of-concept …

**[PDF] Quantum-criticality and superconductivity in twisted transition metal di-chalcogenides**
*AV Chubukov, CM Varma - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.10038, 2024*
We analyze a model for electronic structure and interactions in twisted transition metal chalcogenide WSe $ _2 $ for superconductivity. In this material, spin-orbit scattering locks the z-components of spins of low-energy fermions near the Dirac …

**[PDF] Skyrmion Bag Robustness in Plasmonic Bilayer and Trilayer Moir\'e Superlattices**
*J Schwab, F Mangold, B Frank, TJ Davis, H Giessen - arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.03036, 2024*
Twistronics is studied intensively in twisted 2D heterostructures and its extension to trilayer moir\'e structures has proven beneficial for the tunability of unconventional correlated states and superconductivity in twisted trilayer graphene. Just recently, the …

**[PDF] Distinct moir\'e Exciton dynamics in WS2/WSe2 heterostructure**
*F Kai, X Wang, Y Xie, Y Yang, K Watanabe… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
This letter reports a time resolved pump-probe reflectance spectroscopic study on moir\'e excitons in a twisted monolayer WS2/WSe2 heterostructure. By probing at the resonant energies of intralayer excitons, we observed their distinct temporal tracks …

**[PDF] Observation of Complete Orbital Two-channel Kondo Effect in van der Waals Ferromagnet Fe3GaTe2**
*C Bao, X Yin, J Shao, L Li, Z Li, X Ma, S Guo, T Chen - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
Orbital two-channel Kondo (2CK) effect is one of the crucial systems with non-Fermi liquid (NFL) behaviors. But the full three-regime transport evidence has never been observed in one sample. Here, all three-resistive regimes for the orbital 2CK effect …

**[PDF] Neuromorphic information processing using ultrafast heat dynamics and quench switching of an antiferromagnet**
*J Zubáč, M Surýnek, K Olejník, A Farkaš, F Krizek… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
Solving complex tasks in a modern information-driven society requires novel materials and concepts for energy-efficient hardware. Antiferromagnets offer a promising platform for seeking such approaches due to their exceptional features …

**[PDF] Probing chiral symmetry with a topological domain wall sensor**
*G Wagner, T Neupert, R Thomale, A Szczerbakow… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
Chiral symmetry is a fundamental property with profound implications for the properties of elementary particles, that implies a spectral symmetry (ie E=>-E) in their dispersion relation. In condensed matter physics, chiral symmetry is frequently …

**[PDF] Low-Dimensional Solid-State Single-Photon Emitters**
*J Chen, C Cui, B Lawrie, Y Xue, S Guha, M Eichenfield… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
Solid-state single-photon emitters (SPEs) are attracting significant attention as fundamental components in quantum computing, communication, and sensing. Low-dimensional materials-based SPEs (LD-SPEs) have drawn particular interest due to …

**[PDF] Chiral phonons of honeycomb-type bilayer Wigner crystals**
*D Yang, L Li, N Zhang, H Yu - arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.01760, 2024*
We theoretically investigated the chiral phonons of honeycomb-type bilayer Wigner crystals recently discovered in van der Waals structures of layered transition metal dichalcogenides. These chiral phonons can emerge under the inversion symmetry …

**[PDF] Inherent circular dichroism of phonons in magnetic Weyl semimetal Co3Sn2S2**
*R Yang, YY Zhu, M Steigleder, XG Qiu, TT Zhang… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
We investigated the infrared-active phonons in ferromagnetic Weyl semimetal Co3Sn3S3 using optical spectroscopy. Below the Curie temperature (T~ 175~ K), we observed asymmetric Fano lineshapes of phonons peaks in the optical …

**[PDF] Single-layer spin-orbit-torque magnetization switching due to spin Berry curvature generated by minute spontaneous atomic displacement in a Weyl oxide**
*H Horiuchi, Y Araki, YK Wakabayashi, J Ieda… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
Spin Berry curvature characterizes the band topology as the spin counterpart of Berry curvature and is crucial in generating novel spintronics functionalities. By breaking the crystalline inversion symmetry, the spin Berry curvature is expected to be …

**[PDF] Spin orbit torque-driven motion of quasi-Bloch domain wall in perpendicularly magnetized W/CoFeB/MgO structures**
*N Umetsu, M Quinsat, S Hashimoto, T Kondo, M Kado - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
The motion of chiral magnetic domain walls (DWs) driven by spin-orbit torque (SOT) has been extensively studied in heavy metal/ferromagnet heterostructures with perpendicular magnetic anisotropy. This study specifically focuses on SOT-driven …

**[PDF] Purely electrical detection of the N\'{e} el vector of $ p $-wave magnets based on linear and nonlinear conductivities**
*M Ezawa - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.21854, 2024*
A $ p $-wave magnet has a momentum-dependent band structure and zero-net magnetization just as in the case of an altermagnet. It will be useful for high-density and ultra-fast memory. However, it is a nontrivial problem to detect the N\'{e} el vector …

**[PDF] Role of non-magnetic spacers in the magnetic interactions of antiferromagnetic topological insulators MnBi $ _ {4} $ Te $ _ {7} $ and MnBi $ _ {2} $ Te $ _ {4} $**
*B Li, DM Pajerowski, JQ Yan, RJ McQueeney - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.20455, 2024*
MnBi $ _ {4} $ Te $ _ {7} $ belongs to a family of antiferromagnetic topological insulators. It forms a natural heterostructure of magnetic (septuple) and non-magnetic (quintuple) topological blocks. Here, we explore the magnetism and magnetic …

**[PDF] Singlet-triplet mixed state in spin-orbital-parity coupled superconductors**
*TF Heung, YC Wong - arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.01167, 2024*
Unlike noncentrosymmetric superconductors, the effects of spin singlet-and spin triplet-pairing mixing in centrosymmetric superconductors remain ambiguous. Recently, it was experimentally demonstrated that an anisotropically enhanced in …

**[PDF] Scattering Theory of Chiral Edge Modes in Topological Magnon Insulators**
*S Birnkammer, M Knap, J Knolle, A Mook, A Bastianello - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
Topological magnon insulators exhibit robust edge modes with chiral properties similar to quantum Hall edge states. However, due to their strong localization at the edges, interactions between these chiral edge magnons can be significant, as we …

**[PDF] Magnetic proximity effect in biphenylene monolayer from first-principles**
*D López-Alcalá, JJ Baldoví - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.24025, 2024*
On-surface chemistry has emerged as a key technique for designing novel low-dimensional materials, enabling precise manipulation of their electronic and magnetic properties at the atomic scale. It also proves highly effective for the …

**[PDF] Magnetocaloric effect for the topological semimetal Co $ _3 $ Sn $ _2 $ S $ _2 $ due to the antiferromagnetic coupling of the bulk and surface spin-polarized phases**
*NN Orlova, VD Esin, AV Timonina, NN Kolesnikov… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
We experimentally investigate magnetocaloric effect for the topological magnetic Weyl semimetal Co $ _3 $ Sn $ _2 $ S $ _2 $ in a wide temperature range. The isothermal magnetic entropy change $\Delta S $ is calculated from the experimental …

**[PDF] Field-free spin-orbit switching of canted magnetization in Pt/Co/Ru/RuO2 (101) multilayers**
*Y Wu, T Wu, H Chen, Y Cui, H Xu, N Jiang, Z Cheng… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
Enabling field-free current-induced switching of perpendicular magnetization is essential for advancing spin-orbit-torque magnetic random access memory technology. Our research on the Pt/Co/Ru/RuO2 (101) system has successfully …

**[PDF] Diverging entanglement of critical magnons in easy-axis antiferromagnets**
*JM Lee, HW Lee, MJ Hwang - arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.02338, 2024*
We study the instability of antiferromagnets with easy-axis anisotropy under a magnetic field, uncovering single or even multiple phase transitions at the boundary between non-collinear and collinear spin orderings. Near the phase boundary, the …

**[PDF] Valley polarization, magnetization, and superconductivity in bilayer graphene near the van Hove singularity**
*A Friedlan, H Li, HY Kee - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.05387, 2024*
The discovery of Mott insulators and superconductivity in twisted bilayer graphene has ignited intensive research into strong correlation effects in other stacking geometries. Bernal-stacked bilayer graphene (BBG), when subjected to a …

**[PDF] Electric field driven spin textures in heavy fermion van der Waals magnets**
*A Vijayvargia, H Zhang, K Barros, SZ Lin, O Erten - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.06344, 2024*
The recently discovered van der Waals material CeSiI exhibits both heavy fermion behavior and spiral order with strong magnetic anisotropy which makes it a potential host for topological spin textures such as skyrmions through electrical gating. A …

**[PDF] Two-dimensional topological Anderson insulator in a HgTe-based semimetal**
*DA Khudaiberdiev, ZD Kvon, MS Ryzhkov, DA Kozlov… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
In strongly disordered HgTe quantum wells with a semimetallic spectrum we have experimentally discovered Anderson localization of two-dimensional (2D) electrons and holes in the bulk of the quantum well, exhibiting an exponentially strong …

**[PDF] Classification of Higher-Order Van Hove Singularities in Kagome Topological Bands**
*E Wang, L Pullasseri, LH Santos - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.07000, 2024*
Motivated by the growing interest in band structures featuring higher-order Van Hove singularities (HOVHS), we investigate a spinless fermion kagome system characterized by nearest-neighbor (NN) and next-nearest-neighbor (NNN) hopping …

**[PDF] Giant Topological Hall Effect in Magnetic Weyl Metal Mn $ _ {2} $ Pd $ _ {0.5} $ Ir $ _ {0.5} $ Sn**
*A Bhattacharya, A Ahmed, S PC, D Kurebayashi… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
The synergy between real and reciprocal space topology is anticipated to yield a diverse array of topological properties in quantum materials. We address this pursuit by achieving topologically safeguarded magnetic order in novel Weyl metallic …

**[PDF] Study of the symmetry of electronic system of the Weyl semimetal GdBiPt using rotational anisotropy of second harmonic generation**
*S Daneau, R Leonelli, AD Bianchi - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.00172, 2024*
The half-Heusler compound GdBiPt orders antiferromagnetically around $ T_\mathrm {N}= 8.5$ K which implies breaking the time reversal symmetry as well as the translational symmetry. This combination preserves the global symmetry. Here …

**[PDF] Driving the Berry phase anomalous Hall effect in a noncollinear antiferromagnet by domain manipulation**
*Y Yao, P Pal, NG Campbell, G Gurung, RD Johnson… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
The emergence of anomalous Hall effects (AHE) in antiferromagnets presents an intriguing phenomenon with potential spintronic device applications due to their ultrafast switching dynamics. Mn3NiN antiperovskite stands out as a promising …

**[PDF] Spin Seebeck in the weak exchange coupled van der Waals antiferromagnet**
*X He, S Ding, HG Giil, J Wang, Z Lin, Z Liang, J Yang… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
Spin Seebeck effect (SSE) refers to the creation of spin currents due to a temperature gradient in the magnetic materials or across magnet-normal metal interfaces, which can be electrically detected through the inverse spin Hall effect (ISHE) when in …

**[PDF] Rydberg series of intralayer K-excitons in WSe $ _2 $ multilayers**
*P Kapuscinski, AO Slobodeniuk, A Delhomme… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
Semiconducting transition metal dichalcogenides of group VI are well-known for their prominent excitonic effects and the transition from an indirect to a direct band gap when reduced to monolayers. While considerable efforts have elucidated the …

**[PDF] Doping a fractional quantum anomalous Hall insulator**
*ZD Shi, T Senthil - arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.20567, 2024*
We study novel itinerant phases that can be accessed by doping a fractional quantum anomalous Hall (FQAH) insulator, with a focus on the experimentally observed Jain states at lattice filling $\nu= p/(2p+ 1) $. Unlike in the lowest Landau …

**[PDF] Magnon Nonlinear Hall Effect in 2D Antiferromagnetic Insulators**
*J Ni, Y Jin, G Chang - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.10355, 2024*
Exploring antiferromagnetic (AFM) insulators has long been challenging due to their zero spontaneous magnetization and stable insulating state, with this challenge being even more pronounced in the 2D limit. In this letter, we propose the magnon …

**[PDF] N\'eel Spin-Orbit Torque in Antiferromagnetic Quantum Spin and Anomalous Hall Insulators**
*J Tang, H Zhang, R Cheng - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.21751, 2024*
Interplay between magnetic ordering and topological electrons not only enables new topological phases but also underpins electrical control of magnetism. Here we extend the Kane-Mele model to include the exchange coupling to a collinear …

**[PDF] Conservation law for angular momentum based on optical field derivatives: Analysis of optical spin-orbit conversion**
*S Hashiyada, YY Tanaka - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.13135, 2024*
We present a novel theoretical framework that offers new insights into understanding the loss of optical angular momentum (AM), spin AM (SAM), and orbital AM (OAM) in light-matter interactions, encompassing both the transfer from light to matter and spin …

**[PDF] Resistively detected electron spin resonance and g factor in few-layer exfoliated MoS2 devices**
*CH Sharma, A Parvangada, L Tiemann, K Rossnagel… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
MoS2 has recently emerged as a promising material for enabling quantum devices and spintronic applications. In this context, the demonstration of resistively detected electron spin resonance (RD-ESR) and the determination and improved physical …

**[PDF] Exchange bias-like behavior due to hidden local magnetic state in a Weyl semimetal**
*QQ Zeng, XT Xu, EK Liu, Z Qu - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.21691, 2024*
Magnetic Weyl semimetals, which couple magnetic order with topological features, have emerged as promising candidates for advanced topological-materials-based applications. The switching of magnetization and the driving of domain wall motion …

**[PDF] Origin of Anomalous Hall effect in Cr-doped RuO $ _2$**
*A Smolyanyuk, L Šmejkal, II Mazin - arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.02507, 2024*
RuO $ _2 $ is one of the most highlighted candidates for altermagnetism. However, the most recent muon spin spectroscopy and neutron studies demonstrated the absence of magnetic order in this system. The electronic structure of RuO $ _2 …

**[PDF] Topological Orbital Hall Effect**
*B Wang, YC Hung, H Lin, S Li, RH He, A Bansil - arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.00315, 2024*
The orbital Hall effect (OHE) is attracting recent interest due to its fundamental science implications and potential applications in orbitronics and spintronics. Unlike the spin Hall effect, the connection between the OHE and band topology is not well …

**[PDF] Gate-tunable nonlocal Josephson effect through magnetic van der Waals bilayers**
*GA Bobkov, DS Rabinovich, AM Bobkov, IV Bobkova - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
It is well-known that the proximity effect at superconductor/ferromagnet (S/F) interfaces produces damped oscillatory behavior of the Cooper pair wave function within the ferromagnetic regions, which is analogous to the inhomogeneous Fulde …

**[PDF] Topological surface state dominated nonlinear transverse response and microwave rectification at room temperature**
*Q Shen, J Chen, B Rong, Y Rong, H Chen, T Zhao… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
Nonlinear Hall effect (NLHE) offers a novel means of uncovering symmetry and topological properties in quantum materials, holding promise for exotic (opto) electronic applications such as microwave rectification and THz detection. The BCD …

**[PDF] Intrinsic Nernst effect of the magnon orbital moment in a honeycomb ferromagnet**
*D An, SK Kim - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.19337, 2024*
The Nernst effect of the magnon orbital moment is theoretically investigated in a honeycomb ferromagnet, whose Hamiltonian contains the Heisenberg exchange, the Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya, the Kitaev, and the Zeeman interactions. More specifically, we …

**[PDF] In-situ Study of Understanding the Resistive Switching Mechanisms of Nitride-based Memristor Devices**
*D Zhang, R Dhall, MM Schneider, C Song, H Dou… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
Interface-type resistive switching (RS) devices with lower operation current and more reliable switching repeatability exhibits great potential in the applications for data storage devices and ultra-low-energy computing. However, the working mechanism …

**[PDF] Conservation law for angular momentum based on optical field derivatives: Analysis of optical spin-orbit conversion**
*S Hashiyada, YY Tanaka - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.13135, 2024*
We present a novel theoretical framework that offers new insights into understanding the loss of optical angular momentum (AM), spin AM (SAM), and orbital AM (OAM) in light-matter interactions, encompassing both the transfer from light to matter and spin …

**[PDF] Imaging supermoire relaxation and conductive domain walls in helical trilayer graphene**
*JC Hoke, Y Li, Y Hu, J May-Mann, K Watanabe… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
In twisted van der Waals materials, local atomic relaxation can significantly alter the underlying electronic structure and properties. Characterizing the lattice reconstruction and the impact of strain is essential to better understand and harness …

**[PDF] Stacking engineering in orthogonally-twisted two-dimensional CrSBr magnets**
*C Boix-Constant, A Rybakov, C Miranda-Pérez… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
Twisting two-dimensional van der Waals magnets allows the formation and control of different spin-textures, as skyrmions or magnetic domains. Beyond the rotation angle, different spin reversal processes can be engineered by increasing the number of …

**[PDF] Identifying Highly Deformable van der Waals Layered Chalcogenides with Superior Thermoelectric Performance Using Deformability Factors and Interpretable …**
*Q Ren, Y Lun, B Zhu, G Tang, J Hong - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.05658, 2024*
Van der Waals layered chalcogenide-based flexible thermoelectric devices show great potential for applications in wearable electronics. However, materials that are both highly deformable and exhibit superior thermoelectric performance are …

**[PDF] Trion Engineered Multimodal Transistors in Two dimensional Bilayer Semiconductor Lateral Heterostructures**
*B Kundu, P Chakrabarty, A Dhara, R Rosati… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
Multimodal device operations are essential to advancing the integration of 2D semiconductors in electronics, photonics, information and quantum technology. Precise control over carrier dynamics, particularly exciton generation and transport …

**[PDF] Hafnia-based Phase-Change Ferroelectric Steep-Switching FETs on a 2-D MoS $ _2 $ platform**
*S Sanjay, N Bhat, P Nukala - arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.02054, 2024*
Ferroelectric field-effect transistors integrated on 2D semiconducting platforms are extremely relevant for low power electronics. Here, we propose and demonstrate a novel phase-change ferroelectric field effect transistor (PCFE-FET) for steep …

**[PDF] Imaging magnetic switching in orthogonally twisted stacks of a van der Waals antiferromagnet**
*AJ Healey, C Tan, B Gross, SC Scholten, K Xing… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
Stacking van der Waals magnets holds promise for creating new hybrid materials with properties that do not exist in bulk materials. Here we investigate orthogonally twisted stacks of the van der Waals antiferromagnet CrSBr, aiming to exploit an …

**[PDF] Higher-Order Band Topology in Twisted Bilayer Kagome Lattice**
*X Wan, J Zeng, R Zhu, DH Xu, B Zheng, R Wang - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.08487, 2024*
Topologically protected corner states serve as a key indicator for two-dimensional higher-order topological insulators, yet they have not been experimentally identified in realistic materials. Here, by utilizing the effective tight-binding model and symmetry …

**[PDF] Topological orbital Hall effect caused by skyrmions and antiferromagnetic skyrmions**
*B Göbel, L Schimpf, I Mertig - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.00820, 2024*
The topological Hall effect is a hallmark of topologically non-trivial magnetic textures such as magnetic skyrmions. It quantifies the transverse electric current once an electric field is applied and occurs as a consequence of the emergent magnetic field …

**[PDF] Magnetic-resonance-induced nonlinear current response in magnetic Weyl semimetals**
*R Mei, CX Liu - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.19124, 2024*
In this work, we propose a geometric nonlinear current response induced by magnetic resonance in magnetic Weyl semimetals. This phenomenon is in analog to the quantized circular photogalvanic effect previously proposed for Weyl semimetal …

**[PDF] Polarization and charge-separation of moir\'e excitons in van der Waals heterostructures**
*J Hagel, S Brem, E Malic - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.21483, 2024*
Twisted transition metal dichalcogenide (TMD) bilayers exhibit periodic moir\'e potentials, which can trap excitons at certain high-symmetry sites. At small twist angles, TMD lattices undergo an atomic reconstruction, altering the moir\'e potential …

**[PDF] Tunable Quantum Anomalous Hall Effect via Crystal Order in Spin-Splitting Antiferromagnets**
*W Zhu, H Bai, L Han, F Pan, C Song - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.16587, 2024*
Quantum anomalous Hall (QAH) effect provides dissipationless chiral channels for spin transport, expected as an outstanding candidate in future low-power quantum computation. The spin-splitting band structure is vital for obtaining QAH effect in …

**[PDF] Observation of chiral domain walls in an octupole-ordered antiferromagnet**
*M Tsukamoto, Z Xu, T Higo, K Kondou, K Sasaki… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
Spin chirality in antiferromagnets offers new opportunities for spintronics. The kagome antiferromagnet Mn3Sn is a paradigmatic material in which the antiferromagnetic order parameter can be detected and controlled by electrical …

**[PDF] Magnetization texture imprints produced by flux avalanches in ferromagnet/insulator/superconductor heterostructures**
*RF Lopes, MA Tumelero, CIL de Araujo… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
The magnetic textures generated by a perpendicularly applied magnetic field at the ferromagnetic layer of $ Co/Al_ {2} O_ {3}/Nb $ thin film heterostructures are investigated using magneto-optical imaging and micromagnetic simulations. It is …

**[PDF] Chiral phonons of honeycomb-type bilayer Wigner crystals**
*D Yang, L Li, N Zhang, H Yu - arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.01760, 2024*
We theoretically investigated the chiral phonons of honeycomb-type bilayer Wigner crystals recently discovered in van der Waals structures of layered transition metal dichalcogenides. These chiral phonons can emerge under the inversion symmetry …

**[PDF] Synchronous manipulation of nuclear spins via boron vacancy centers in hexagonal boron nitride**
*F Sakuldee, M Abdi - arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.02828, 2024*
We develop a method for entangling operations on nuclear spins surrounding a negatively charged boron vacancy (VB-center) point defect in hexagonal boron nitride (hBN). To this end, we propose to employ the electron spin of a VB-center as a …

**[PDF] Two-dimensional materials as ideal substrates for molecular quantum emitters**
*H Wang, N Stenger, P Lyngby, M Kuisma… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
The generation and manipulation of non-classical light states is central to emerging quantum technologies. Color centers in insulating crystals have been extensively studied for single-photon generation, but organic molecules immobilized on …

**[PDF] Intrinsic Thermal Hall Effect in Mott Insulators**
*JK Ding, EZ Zhang, WO Wang, T Cookmeyer, B Moritz… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
In light of recent experimental data indicating a substantial thermal Hall effect in square lattice antiferromagnetic Mott insulators, we investigate whether a simple Mott insulator can sustain a finite thermal Hall effect. We verify that the answer is" no" if …

**[PDF] Intrinsic Nernst effect of the magnon orbital moment in a honeycomb ferromagnet**
*D An, SK Kim - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.19337, 2024*
The Nernst effect of the magnon orbital moment is theoretically investigated in a honeycomb ferromagnet, whose Hamiltonian contains the Heisenberg exchange, the Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya, the Kitaev, and the Zeeman interactions. More specifically, we …

**[PDF] Field-induced antiferromagnetic correlations in a nanopatterned van der Waals ferromagnet: a potential artificial spin ice**
*A Noah, N Fridman, Y Zur, M Markman, YK King… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
Nano-patterned magnetic materials have opened new venues on the investigation of strongly correlated phenomena including artificial spin-ice systems, geometric frustration, magnetic monopoles, for technologically important applications such as …

**[PDF] Rydberg series of intralayer K-excitons in WSe $ _2 $ multilayers**
*P Kapuscinski, AO Slobodeniuk, A Delhomme… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
Semiconducting transition metal dichalcogenides of group VI are well-known for their prominent excitonic effects and the transition from an indirect to a direct band gap when reduced to monolayers. While considerable efforts have elucidated the …

**[PDF] Half-Metallicity in Triangulene-based Superatomic Graphene**
*Y Ding, T Zhang, X Lu, Y Xia, Z Ou, Y Chen, W Zhai… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
The discovery of two-dimensional (2D) magnets has opened up new possibilities for miniaturizing spintronic devices to the monolayer limit. 2D half-metals, capable of conducting fully spin-polarized currents when spin-orbit coupling is minimal, provide …

**[PDF] Spontaneously formed phonon frequency combs in van der Waals solid CrXTe $ _3 $(X= Ge, Si)**
*L Chen, G Ye, C Nnokwe, XC Pan, K Tanigaki… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
Optical phonon engineering through nonlinear effects has been utilized in ultrafast control of material properties. However, nonlinear optical phonons typically exhibit rapid decay due to strong mode-mode couplings, limiting their effectiveness in …

**[PDF] Topological incommensurate Fulde-Ferrell-Larkin-Ovchinnikov superconductor and Bogoliubov Fermi surface in rhombohedral tetra-layer graphen**
*H Yang, YH Zhang - arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.02503, 2024*
We performed a random phase approximation (RPA) calculation for a spin-valley polarized model of the rhombohedral tetra-layer graphene to study the possibility of chiral superconductor from the Kohn-Luttinger mechanism. We included the realistic …

**[PDF] Amplifying the antiferromagnetic spin Seebeck effect through topological magnons**
*FS Konomaev, K Hals - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.02508, 2024*
Topological magnons emerge as topologically protected spin wave states at the edges of magnets. Here, we theoretically explore how these surface states can be harnessed to amplify the spin Seebeck effect (SSE) in antiferromagnets (AFMs) …

**[PDF] The maximum storage capacity of open-loop written RRAM is around 4 bits**
*Y Li, S Wang, Z Sun - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.20332, 2024*
There have been a plethora of research on multi-level memory devices, where the resistive random-access memory (RRAM) is a prominent example. Although it is easy to write an RRAM device into multiple (even quasi-continuous) states, it suffers …

**[PDF] Magnetic Field-Induced Polar Order in Monolayer Molybdenum Disulfide Transistors**
*D Hao, WH Chang, YC Chang, WT Liu, SZ Ho, CH Lu… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
In semiconducting monolayer transition metal dichalcogenides (ML-TMDs), broken inversion symmetry and strong spin-orbit coupling result in spin-valley lock-in effects so that the valley degeneracy may be lifted by external magnetic fields, potentially …

**[PDF] Symmetry controlled single spin cycloid switching in multiferroic BiFeO3**
*P Pal, JL Schad, AM Vibhakar, SK Ojha, GY Kim… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
The single variant spin cycloid and associated antiferromagnetic order in multiferroic BiFeO3 can provide a direct and predictable magnetoelectric coupling to ferroelectric order for deterministic switching, and also a key to fundamental understanding of …

**[PDF] Tunable Skyrmion-Antiskyrmion Dynamics in Co/Pt Nanocontacts for Spintronic Applications**
*H Prakash, H Fulara - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.09851, 2024*
Magnetic skyrmions are topologically protected quasiparticles and have drawn much attention because of their potential applications in next-generation spintronics devices. Their inherent topological stability, nanoscale size, and efficient …

**[PDF] The Weyl-Mott point: an isolated topological Green's function zero**
*R Flores-Calderón, C Hooley - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.22173, 2024*
We present and analyze a model in which a Hatsugai-Kohmoto interaction is added to a system of fermions with a Weyl point in their non-interacting dispersion relation. We show that the interacting model exhibits a Weyl-Mott point, at which a single …

**[PDF] Positive oscillating magnetoresistance in a van der Waals antiferromagnetic semiconductor**
*X Lin, F Wu, N Ubrig, M Liao, F Yao… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
In all van der Waals layered antiferromagnetic semiconductors investigated so far a negative magnetoresistance has been observed in vertical transport measurements, with characteristic trends that do not depend on applied bias. Here we report vertical …

**[PDF] Anisotropic conductivity for the type-I and type-II phases of Weyl/multi-Weyl semimetals in planar Hall set-ups**
*I Mandal - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.05028, 2024*
We compute the non-Drude part of the conductivity tensor in planar Hall set-ups, for tilted Weyl and multi-Weyl semimetals, considering both the type-I and type-II phases. We do so in three distinct set-ups, taking into account the possible relative …

**[PDF] Boundary topological insulators and superconductors of Altland-Zirnbauer tenfold classes**
*XJ Luo, F Wu - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.18015, 2024*
In a class of systems, there are gapped boundary-localized states described by a boundary Hamiltonian. The topological classification of gapped boundary Hamiltonians can lead to the emergence of boundary topological insulators (TIs) and …

**[PDF] Problem of nonlinear conductivity within relaxation time approximation in noncentrosymmetric insulators**
*I Terada, S Kitamura, H Watanabe, H Ikeda - arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.00658, 2024*
With the recent advancements in laser technology, there has been increasing interest in nonlinear and nonperturbative phenomena such as nonreciprocal transport, the nonlinear Hall effect, and nonlinear optical responses. When analyzing …

**[PDF] On-Chip Terahertz Spectroscopy for Dual-Gated van der Waals Heterostructures at Cryogenic Temperatures**
*J Seo, Z Lu, J Yang, F Xia, S Ye, Y Yao, T Han, L Shi… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
Van der Waals heterostructures have emerged as a versatile platform to study correlated and topological electron physics. Spectroscopy experiments in the THz regime are crucial, since the energy of THz photons matches that of relevant …

**[PDF] Probing Chiral Kitaev Spin Liquids via Dangling Boundary Fermions**
*SS Zhang, GB Halász, CD Batista - arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.01784, 2024*
Identifying experimental probes capable of diagnosing extreme quantum behavior is widely regarded as one of the foremost challenges in modern condensed matter physics. Here, we propose a novel approach for detecting chiral Kitaev spin liquid …

**[PDF] Single-particle spectral function of fractional quantum anomalous Hall states**
*F Pichler, W Kadow, C Kuhlenkamp, M Knap - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.07319, 2024*
Fractional quantum Hall states are the most prominent example of states with topological order, hosting excitations with fractionalized charge. Recent experiments in twisted $\text {MoTe} _2 $ and graphene-based heterostructures provide evidence …

**[PDF] Superconducting Berry Curvature Dipole**
*O Matsyshyn, G Vignale, JCW Song - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.21363, 2024*
Superconductivity and Bloch band Berry curvature responses represent two distinct paradigms of quantum coherent phenomena. The former relies on the collective motion of a many-body state while the latter proceeds from the momentum-space …

**[PDF] Magnetization-Induced Phase Transitions on the surface of 3D Topological Insulators**
*YH Wan, QF Sun - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.21684, 2024*
From the low-energy model, the topological field theory indicates that the surface magnetization can open a surface gap in 3D topological insulators (TIs), resulting in a half-quantized Hall conductance. Here by employing the realistic lattice model, we …

**[PDF] Strong photon coupling to high-frequency antiferromagnetic magnons via topological surface states**
*HT Kaarbø, HG Hugdal, SH Jacobsen - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.14780, 2024*
We show strong coupling between antiferromagnetic magnons and microwave cavity photons at both high and externally controllable magnon frequencies. Using the fully quantum mechanical path-integral method, we study an antiferromagnetic insulator …

**[PDF] Superradiance of strongly interacting dipolar excitons in moir\'e quantum materials**
*J Kumlin, A Srivastava, T Pohl - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.08891, 2024*
Moir\'e lattices created in two-dimensional heterostructures exhibit rich many-body physics of interacting electrons and excitons and, at the same time, suggest promising optoelectronic applications. Here, we study the cooperative radiance of …

**[PDF] Wave function forms of interlayer excitons in bilayer transition metal dichalcogenides**
*J Tang, S Wang, Y Hou, H Yu - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.16717, 2024*
We numerically solve the electron-hole relative wave function of interlayer excitons in bilayer transition metal dichalcogenides, taking into account the screening effects from both the constituent transition metal dichalcogenides layers and the …

**[PDF] Insulating charge transfer ferromagnetism**
*Y Zhang, Y Zhang - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.22399, 2024*
We propose a mechanism for insulating ferromagnetism in the honeycomb Hubbard model of semiconductor moir\'e superlattices. The ferromagnetism emerges at critical charge transfer regime, stabilizing the quantum anomalous Hall state without Hund's …

**[PDF] Thickness-Driven Transitions Between Novel Magnetic States in Ferromagnetic Films**
*J Mankenberg, A Abanov - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.04600, 2024*
Magnetic materials hosting stable topological spin textures have demonstrated energy efficiency and potential as information carriers in novel logic and memory devices, offering an alternative to magnetic tunnel junction technology. While these …

**[PDF] Imprinting electrically switchable scalar spin chirality by anisotropic strain in a Kagome antiferromagnet**
*D Paul, S Yadav, S Gupta, B Patra, N Kulkarni… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
Applying strain to epitaxial thin films has proven to be an effective approach for controlling material properties, paving the way for" materials by design". In this study, we explore this concept in the context of topological Kagome antiferromagnets …

**[PDF] Fast switchable unidirectional magnon emitter**
*Y Wang, M Guo, K Davídková, R Verba, X Guo, C Dubs… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
Magnon spintronics is an emerging field that explores the use of magnons, the quanta of spin waves in magnetic materials for information processing and communication. Achieving unidirectional information transport with fast switching …

**[PDF] Insulating charge transfer ferromagnetism**
*Y Zhang, Y Zhang - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.22399, 2024*
We propose a mechanism for insulating ferromagnetism in the honeycomb Hubbard model of semiconductor moir\'e superlattices. The ferromagnetism emerges at critical charge transfer regime, stabilizing the quantum anomalous Hall state without Hund's …

**[PDF] Gate-tunable Bose-Fermi mixture in a strongly correlated moir\'e bilayer electron system**
*AB Mhenni, W Kadow, MJ Metelski, AO Paulus… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
Quantum gases consisting of species with distinct quantum statistics, such as Bose-Fermi mixtures, can behave in a fundamentally different way than their unmixed constituents. This makes them an essential platform for studying emergent quantum …

**[PDF] Magnetoelectric imprint of skyrmions in van der Waals bilayers**
*Z Shen, X Yao, S Dong - arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.19879, 2024*
To effectively track and manipulate topological solitons (eg skyrmions) are the key challenge before their applications. Inspired by the idea of sliding ferroelectricity, here a general strategy is proposed to print magnetic skyrmions to electric skyrmions …

**[PDF] Highly tunable moir\'e superlattice potentials in twisted hexagonal boron nitrides**
*K Han, M Cho, T Kim, ST Kim, SH Kim, SH Park… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
Moir\'e superlattice of twisted hexagonal boron nitride (hBN) has emerged as an advanced atomically thin van der Waals interfacial ferroelectricity platform. Nanoscale periodic ferroelectric moir\'e domains with out-of-plane potentials in …

**Modeling the Superlattice Phase Diagram of Transition Metal Intercalation in Bilayer 2H-TaS $ _2$**
*IM Craig, BJ Kim, DT Limmer, DK Bediako, SM Griffin - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
Van der Waals hosts intercalated with transition metal (TM) ions exhibit a range of magnetic properties strongly influenced by the structural order of the intercalants. However, predictive computational models for the intercalant ordering phase …

**[PDF] Nonreciprocal Weyl semimetal waveguide**
*M Peluso, A De Martino, R Egger, F Buccheri - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.01503, 2024*
We study a cylindrical plasmonic waveguide consisting of a magnetic Weyl semimetal embedded in a dielectric medium. We determine the dispersion relation of the surface plasmon polaritons and show how it depends on the plasma frequency …

**[PDF] Spin wave frequency hysteresis in Ir/Co/Pt multilayers with Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction**
*R Gieniusz, P Gruszecki, J Kisielewski, AK Dhiman… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
Results of extensive combined experimental and theoretical investigations on static and dynamic properties of Ir/Co/Pt multilayer with low uniaxial anisotropy and asymmetric Ir/Co and Co/Pt interfaces responsible for large interfacial Dzyaloshinskii …

**[PDF] Tunable high Chern-number quantum anomalous Hall effect through interlayer ferromagnetic coupling in two-dimensional ferromagnet NiSbO3**
*X Peng, M Si, D Gao - arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.05718, 2024*
The high Chern-number quantum anomalous Hall effect (QAHE) is significant and fascinating due to the presence of multiple dissipationless chiral edge states. Here, we predict that monolayer NiSbO3 possesses the Chern number C= 3, confirmed by …

**[PDF] Driving the Berry phase anomalous Hall effect in a noncollinear antiferromagnet by domain manipulation**
*Y Yao, P Pal, NG Campbell, G Gurung, RD Johnson… - arXiv preprint arXiv …, 2024*
The emergence of anomalous Hall effects (AHE) in antiferromagnets presents an intriguing phenomenon with potential spintronic device applications due to their ultrafast switching dynamics. Mn3NiN antiperovskite stands out as a promising …

# ACS nano

**[PDF] Emerging Chirality and Moiré Dynamics in Twisted Layered Material Heterostructures**
*A Silva, X Gao, MM Gianetti, R Guerra, N Manini… - ACS nano, 2024*
Moiré superstructures arising at twisted 2D interfaces have recently attracted the attention of the scientific community due to exotic quantum states and unique mechanical and tribological behaviors that they exhibit. Here, we predict the …

**Negative Differential Resistance Device with High Peak-to-Valley Ratio Realized by Subband Resonant Tunneling of Γ-Valley Carriers in WSe2/h-BN/WSe2 Junctions**
*K Kinoshita, R Moriya, S Kawasaki, S Okazaki… - ACS nano, 2024*
Resonant tunneling diodes (RTDs) are a core technology in III–V semiconductor devices. The realization of high-performance RTD using two-dimensional (2D) materials has been long awaited, but it has yet to be accomplished. To this end, we …

**Route to Enhancing Remote Epitaxy of Perovskite Complex Oxide Thin Films**
*S Lee, X Zhang, P Abdollahi, MR Barone, C Dong… - ACS nano, 2024*
Remote epitaxy is taking center stage in creating freestanding complex oxide thin films with high crystallinity that could serve as an ideal building block for stacking artificial heterostructures with distinctive functionalities. However, there exist …

**Strain-Engineered Ferroelectricity in 2H Bilayer MoS2**
*J Mao, J He, WF Io, F Guo, Z Wu, M Yang, J Hao - ACS nano, 2024*
The exploration of two-dimensional (2D) materials exhibiting out-of-plane ferroelectric and piezoelectric properties through interlayer twist/translation or strain, known as sliding ferroelectricity, has become a focal point in the quest for low-power …

**Two-Dimensional Vertical Transistor with One-Dimensional van der Waals Contact**
*Z Mei, X Li, L Liang, Y Li, Z Zhao, Z Zhou, Q Li, S Fan… - ACS nano, 2024*
Two-dimensional (2D) materials enable vertical field effect transistors (VFETs), which provide an alternative path for scaling down the channels of transistors. The challenge is the short channel effect when the thickness of the 2D channel …

**Multibarrier Collaborative Modulation Devices with Ultra-High Logic Operation Density**
*J Pan, F Wu, Z Wang, S Liu, P Guo, J Yin, B Zhao… - ACS nano, 2024*
The demands for highly miniaturized and multifunctional electronics are rapidly increasing. As scaling-down processes of transistors are restricted by physical limits, reconfigurable electronics with switchable operation functions for different tasks are …

**[HTML] Electrical Control of Valley Polarized Charged Exciton Species in Monolayer WS2**
*S Das, D Huang, IA Verzhbitskiy, ZE Ooi, CS Lau… - ACS nano, 2024*
Excitons are key to the optoelectronic applications of van der Waals semiconductors, with the potential for versatile on-demand tuning of properties. Yet, their electrical manipulation remains challenging due to inherent charge neutrality and the …

**[HTML] Characterizing Defects Inside Hexagonal Boron Nitride Using Random Telegraph Signals in van der Waals 2D Transistors**
*Z Huang, RG Lee, E Cuniberto, J Song, J Lee… - ACS nano, 2024*
Single-crystal hexagonal boron nitride (hBN) is used extensively in many two-dimensional electronic and quantum devices, where defects significantly impact performance. Therefore, characterizing and engineering hBN defects are crucial for …

**Suppressed Thermal Quenching via Tetrafluoroborate-Induced Surface Reconstruction of CsPbBr3 Nanocrystals for Efficient Perovskite Light-Emitting Diodes**
*MG Jeon, GH An, A Kirakosyan, S Yun, J Kim, CY Kim… - ACS nano, 2024*
Although metal-halide perovskite nanocrystals (NCs) have garnered significant attention for optoelectronic applications, the presence of electrically insulating organic ligands in CsPbBr3 NCs hinders efficient charge injection and transportation …

**Persistent Exciton Dressed by Weak Polaronic Effect in Rigid and Harmonic Lattice Dion–Jacobson 2D Perovskites**
*H Lei, Y Xu, Y Zhang, Q Feng, H Zhou, W Tang, J Wang… - ACS nano, 2024*
The emerging two-dimensional (2D) Dion–Jacobson (DJ) perovskites with bidentate ligands have attracted significant attention due to enhanced structural stability compared with conventional Ruddlesden–Popper (RP) perovskites with …

**[PDF] Emerging Chirality and Moiré Dynamics in Twisted Layered Material Heterostructures**
*A Silva, X Gao, MM Gianetti, R Guerra, N Manini… - ACS nano, 2024*
Moiré superstructures arising at twisted 2D interfaces have recently attracted the attention of the scientific community due to exotic quantum states and unique mechanical and tribological behaviors that they exhibit. Here, we predict the …

**Efficient Energy Transfer Enabled by Dark States in van der Waals Heterostructures**
*Z Luo, X Yi, Y Jiang, N Luo, B Liu, Y Zhong, Q Tan… - ACS nano, 2024*
Dark exciton states show great potential in condensed matter physics and optoelectronics because of their long lifetime and rich distribution in band structures. Therefore, they can theoretically serve as efficient energy reservoirs, providing a …

**Directing Charge Carriers and Ferroelectric Domains at Lateral Interfaces in van der Waals Heterostructures**
*E Sutter, P Ghimire, P Sutter - ACS nano, 2024*
Emergent phenomena in traditional ferroelectrics are frequently observed at heterointerfaces. Accessing such functionalities in van der Waals ferroelectrics requires the formation of layered heterostructures, either vertically stacked (similar to …

**[PDF] Lead-Free Hybrid Perovskite: An Efficient Room-Temperature Spin Generator via Large Interfacial Rashba Effect**
*L Han, Q Wang, Y Lu, S Tao, W Zhu, X Feng, S Liang… - ACS nano, 2024*
Two-dimensional (2D) hybrid organic–inorganic perovskite (HOIP) shows great potential for developing flexible and wearable spintronic devices by serving as spin sources via the bulk Rashba effect (BRE). However, the practical application of BRE …

# Nano Letters

**Topological Polar Networks in Twisted Rhombohedral-Stacked Bilayer WSe2 Moiré Superlattices**
*Y Li, S Wan, H Liu, H Huang, Z Li, X Weng, M Zhu… - Nano Letters, 2024*
Sliding ferroelectricity enables materials with intrinsic centrosymmetric symmetry to generate spontaneous polarization via stacking engineering, extending the family of ferroelectric materials and enriching the field of low-dimensional ferroelectric …

**Impact of Thickness-Dependent Nanophotonic Effects on the Optical Response of Color Centers in Hexagonal Boron Nitride**
*T Clua-Provost, A Durand, J Fraunié, C Robert, X Marie… - Nano Letters, 2024*
Among a broad diversity of color centers hosted in layered van der Waals materials, the negatively charged boron vacancy (VB–) center in hexagonal boron nitride (hBN) is garnering considerable attention for the development of quantum sensing units on …

**Phase-Selective Synthesis of Rhombohedral WS2 Multilayers by Confined-Space Hybrid Metal–Organic Chemical Vapor Deposition**
*Z Zhang, M Hocking, Z Peng, M Pendharkar… - Nano Letters, 2024*
Rhombohedral polytype transition metal dichalcogenide (TMDC) multilayers exhibit non-centrosymmetric interlayer stacking, which yields intriguing properties such as ferroelectricity, a large second-order susceptibility coefficient χ (2), giant valley …

**Imaging Ferroelastic Domain Walls in Hybrid Improper Ferroelectric Sr3Sn2O7**
*AM Sargent, KA Smith, K Du, X Xu, SW Cheong… - Nano Letters, 2024*
We combined synchrotron-based near field infrared spectroscopy and atomic force microscopy to image the properties of ferroelastic domain walls in Sr3Sn2O7. Although frequency shifts at the walls are near the limit of our sensitivity, we can …

**[HTML] Probing the Nature of Single-Photon Emitters in a WSe2 Monolayer by Magneto-Photoluminescence Spectroscopy**
*CS de Brito, BLT Rosa, A Chaves, C Cavalini… - Nano Letters, 2024*
Monolayer transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDs) have emerged as promising materials to generate single-photon emitters (SPEs). While there are several previous reports in the literature about TMD-based SPEs, the precise nature of the …

**Enabling Fast Photoresponse in Hybrid Perovskite/MoS2 Photodetectors by Separating Local Photocharge Generation and Recombination**
*J Song, T Li, W Li, Z Xiao, B Chen, D Li, S Ducharme… - Nano Letters, 2024*
Interfacing CH3NH3PbI3 (MAPbI3) with 2D van der Waals materials in lateral photodetectors can suppress the dark current and driving voltage, while the interlayer charge separation also renders slower charge dynamics. In this work, we …

**Phase Distribution Dictates Charge Transfer and Transport Dynamics in Layered Quasi-2D Perovskite**
*G Gao, Y Dong, L Jiang, Q Liu, X Liu, Q Chen, T Wang… - Nano Letters, 2024*
Strategic manipulation of spatiotemporal evolution of charge carriers is critical for optimizing performance of quasi-two-dimensional (2D) perovskite-based optoelectronic devices. Nonetheless, the inhomogeneous phase distribution and …

**[HTML] Parallel Logic Operations in Electrically Tunable Two-Dimensional Homojunctions**
*Y Chen, Z Wang, C Zou, SSP Parkin - Nano Letters, 2024*
Two-dimensional materials show great potential for future electronics beyond silicon materials. Here, we report an exotic multiple-port device based on multiple electrically tunable planar p–n homojunctions formed in a two-dimensional (2D) …

**Oriented Epitaxial Growth of Mixed-Dimensional van der Waals Heterostructures with One-Dimensional (1D) Bi2S3 Nanowires and Two-Dimensional (2D) WS2 …**
*K Jiang, Q You, Y Zheng, F Fang, Z Xie, H Li, Y Wan… - Nano Letters, 2024*
The synthesis of mixed-dimensional van der Waals heterostructures with controlled alignment by chemical vapor deposition (CVD) technique remains a big challenge due to the complex epitaxial growth mechanism. Herein, we report the epitaxial …

**Gradient Hole Injection Inducing Efficient Exciton Recombination in Blue (475 nm) Perovskite QLEDs**
*Y Nong, J Yao, J Li, L Xu, Z Yang, S Wang, J Song - Nano Letters, 2024*
Perovskite quantum dots (QDs) are emerging as excellent light sources for light-emitting diodes (LEDs). However, the performance of blue perovskite QD-based LEDs (QLEDs) still lags behind that of red and green counterparts, which is hindered …

**Flexible Near-Infrared Plasmon-Polaritons in Epitaxial Scandium Nitride Enabled by van der Waals Heteroepitaxy**
*D Mukhopadhyay, D Rao, RS Rawat, AIK Pillai… - Nano Letters, 2024*
Van der Waals heteroepitaxy refers to the growth of strain-and misfit-dislocation-free epitaxial films on layered substrates or vice versa. Such heteroepitaxial technique can be utilized in developing flexible near-infrared transition metal nitride plasmonic …

**Constructing the Fulde–Ferrell–Larkin–Ovchinnikov State in a CrOCl/NbSe2 van der Waals Heterostructure**
*Y Ding, J He, S Zhang, H Zuo, P Gu, J Cai, X Zeng… - Nano Letters, 2024*
Time reversal symmetry breaking in superconductors, resulting from external magnetic fields or spontaneous magnetization, often leads to unconventional superconducting properties. In this way, an intrinsic phenomenon called the Fulde …

**Mechanisms of Defect-Mediated Memristive Behavior in MoS2 Monolayer**
*Y Huang, ES Penev, BI Yakobson - Nano Letters, 2024*
The switching dynamics of a Au∥ VS2@ MoS2 atomristor is explored by first-principles computations of the atomic-configuration energy and electron transport. It is found that external bias can reduce the energy barrier between the two (high-and …

**Revealing and Manipulating Hidden Fine-Structure Coherence of Bright Excitons in CsPbI3 Perovskite Quantum Dots**
*K Gao, Y Li, Y Yang, B Zhang, M Liu, J Zhu, K Wu - Nano Letters, 2024*
Observation and understanding of fine-structure splitting of bright excitons in lead halide perovskite quantum dots (QDs) are crucial to their emerging applications in quantum light sources and exciton coherence manipulation. Recent studies …

**[HTML] Probing the Nature of Single-Photon Emitters in a WSe2 Monolayer by Magneto-Photoluminescence Spectroscopy**
*C Serati de Brito, BLT Rosa, A Chaves, C Cavalini… - Nano Letters, 2024*
Monolayer transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDs) have emerged as promising materials to generate single-photon emitters (SPEs). While there are several previous reports in the literature about TMD-based SPEs, the precise nature of the …

**Understanding Iron-Doping Modulating Domain Orientation and Improving the Device Performance of Monolayer Molybdenum Disulfide**
*J Yang, L Huang, H Li, X Li, L Song, Y Peng, R Xu… - Nano Letters, 2024*
Domain orientation modulation and controlled doping of two-dimensional (2D) transition-metal dichalcogenides (TMDCs) are two pivotal tasks for synthesizing wafer-scale single crystals and boosting device performances. However, realizing …

**Gradient Hole Injection Inducing Efficient Exciton Recombination in Blue (475 nm) Perovskite QLEDs**
*Y Nong, J Yao, J Li, L Xu, Z Yang, S Wang, J Song - Nano Letters, 2024*
Perovskite quantum dots (QDs) are emerging as excellent light sources for light-emitting diodes (LEDs). However, the performance of blue perovskite QD-based LEDs (QLEDs) still lags behind that of red and green counterparts, which is hindered …

**Enabling Fast Photoresponse in Hybrid Perovskite/MoS2 Photodetectors by Separating Local Photocharge Generation and Recombination**
*J Song, T Li, W Li, Z Xiao, B Chen, D Li, S Ducharme… - Nano Letters, 2024*
Interfacing CH3NH3PbI3 (MAPbI3) with 2D van der Waals materials in lateral photodetectors can suppress the dark current and driving voltage, while the interlayer charge separation also renders slower charge dynamics. In this work, we …

**[PDF] Vibrational Fermi Resonance in Atomically Thin Black Phosphorus**
*N Mao, S Huang, LG Pimenta Martins, H Yan, X Ling… - Nano Letters, 2024*
Fermi resonance is a phenomenon involving the hybridization of two coincidentally quasi-degenerate states that is observed in the vibrational or electronic spectra of molecules. Despite numerous examples in molecular systems, vibrational Fermi …

**Progressive Control of Rashba State on Topological Dirac Semimetal KZnBi**
*G Lee, J Koo, Y Lee, J Cha, J Hyun, K Han, C Lim… - Nano Letters, 2024*
Rashba states have been actively revisited as a platform for advanced applications such as spintronics and topological quantum computation. Yet, access to the Rashba state is restricted to the specific material sets, and the methodology to control the …

**[HTML] Electronically Seamless Domain Wall of Chiral Charge Density Wave in 1 T-TiSe2**
*H Kim, KH Jin, HW Yeom - Nano Letters, 2024*
Domain walls (DWs) have been recognized to play crucial roles in various interesting properties and functionalities in quantum materials. A notable example is DWs in charge density wave (CDW), which are believed to provide metallic electron …

**[HTML] Diode and Selective Routing Functionalities Controlled by Geometry in Current-Induced Spin–Orbit Torque Driven Magnetic Domain Wall Devices**
*EM Şteţco, T Petrişor Jr, OA Pop, M Belmeguenai… - Nano Letters, 2024*
Research on current-induced domain wall (DW) motion in heavy metal/ferromagnet structures is crucial for advancing memory, logic, and computing devices. Here, we demonstrate that adjusting the angle between the DW conduit and the current …

**Ultra-High-k Ferroelectric BaTiO3 Perovskite in the Gate Stack for Two-Dimensional WSe2 p-Type High-Performance Transistors**
*P Debashis, H Ryu, R Steinhardt, P Buragohain… - Nano Letters, 2024*
The experimental demonstration of a p-type 2D WSe2 transistor with a ferroelectric perovskite BaTiO3 gate oxide is presented. The 30 nm thick BaTiO3 gate stack shows a robust ferroelectric hysteresis with a remanent polarization of 20 μC/cm2 …

**Understanding Iron-Doping Modulating Domain Orientation and Improving the Device Performance of Monolayer Molybdenum Disulfide**
*J Yang, L Huang, H Li, X Li, L Song, Y Peng, R Xu… - Nano Letters, 2024*
Domain orientation modulation and controlled doping of two-dimensional (2D) transition-metal dichalcogenides (TMDCs) are two pivotal tasks for synthesizing wafer-scale single crystals and boosting device performances. However, realizing …

**[HTML] Diode and Selective Routing Functionalities Controlled by Geometry in Current-Induced Spin–Orbit Torque Driven Magnetic Domain Wall Devices**
*EM Şteţco, T Petrişor Jr, OA Pop, M Belmeguenai… - Nano Letters, 2024*
Research on current-induced domain wall (DW) motion in heavy metal/ferromagnet structures is crucial for advancing memory, logic, and computing devices. Here, we demonstrate that adjusting the angle between the DW conduit and the current …

**Optimally Suppressed Phonon Tunneling in van der Waals Graphene–WS2 Heterostructure with Ultralow Thermal Conductivity**
*W Ding, ZY Ong, M An, B Davier, S Hu, M Ohnishi… - Nano Letters, 2024*
Van der Waals heterostructures have great potential for realizing ultimately low thermal conductivity because defectless interfaces can be constructed at a length scale smaller than the phonon wavelength, allowing modulation of coherent phonon …

**Low Contact Resistance WSe2 p-Type Transistors with Highly Stable, CMOS-Compatible Dopants**
*I Kim, N Higashitarumizu, IKMR Rahman, S Wang… - Nano Letters, 2024*
High contact resistance has been a bottleneck in developing high-performance transition-metal dichalcogenide (TMD) based p-type transistors. We report degenerately doped few-layer WSe2 transistors with contact resistance as low as …

**Comparative Study of Current-Induced Torque in Cr/CoFeB/MgO and W/CoFeB/MgO**
*S Chiba, Y Marui, H Ohno, S Fukami - Nano Letters, 2024*
Orbital torque (OT) in magnetic heterostructures has been actively discussed in terms of its actual existence and usefulness in comparison to the spin-orbit torque (SOT) that shows promise for next-generation magnetoresistive random access memories …

**Oriented Epitaxial Growth of Mixed-Dimensional van der Waals Heterostructures with One-Dimensional (1D) Bi2S3 Nanowires and Two-Dimensional (2D) WS2 …**
*K Jiang, Q You, Y Zheng, F Fang, Z Xie, H Li, Y Wan… - Nano Letters, 2024*
The synthesis of mixed-dimensional van der Waals heterostructures with controlled alignment by chemical vapor deposition (CVD) technique remains a big challenge due to the complex epitaxial growth mechanism. Herein, we report the epitaxial …

**Comparative Study of Current-Induced Torque in Cr/CoFeB/MgO and W/CoFeB/MgO**
*S Chiba, Y Marui, H Ohno, S Fukami - Nano Letters, 2024*
Orbital torque (OT) in magnetic heterostructures has been actively discussed in terms of its actual existence and usefulness in comparison to the spin-orbit torque (SOT) that shows promise for next-generation magnetoresistive random access memories …

# Nature

**[HTML] Large unidirectional spin Hall magnetoresistance in FeNi/Pt/Bi2Se3 trilayers by Pt interfacial engineering**
*Q Zhang, K Tao, C Jia, G Xu, G Chai, Y Zuo, B Cui… - Nature Communications, 2024*
Unidirectional spin Hall magnetoresistance (USMR) has emerged as a promising candidate for magnetoresistive random-access memory (MRAM) technology. However, the realization of high signal-to-noise output signal in USMR devices has …

**High-κ monocrystalline dielectrics for low-power two-dimensional electronics**
*L Yin, R Cheng, X Wan, J Ding, J Jia, Y Wen, X Liu… - Nature Materials, 2024*
The downscaling of complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor technology has produced breakthroughs in electronics, but more extreme scaling has hit a wall of device performance degradation. One key challenge is the development of insulators …

**[HTML] Photo-ferroelectric perovskite interfaces for boosting VOC in efficient perovskite solar cells**
*G Pica, L Pancini, CE Petoukhoff, B Vishal, F Toniolo… - Nature Communications, 2024*
Interface engineering is the core of device optimization, and this is particularly true for perovskite photovoltaics (PVs). The steady improvement in their performance has been largely driven by careful manipulation of interface chemistry to reduce …

**CMOS-compatible strain engineering for monolayer semiconductor transistors**
*M Jaikissoon, Ç Köroğlu, JA Yang, K Neilson… - Nature Electronics, 2024*
Strain engineering has played a key role in modern silicon electronics, having been introduced as a mobility booster in the 1990s and commercialized in the early 2000s. Achieving similar advances with two-dimensional (2D) semiconductors in a …

**[HTML] Moiré-engineered light-matter interactions in MoS2/WSe2 heterobilayers at room temperature**
*Q Lin, H Fang, A Kalaboukhov, Y Liu, Y Zhang… - Nature Communications, 2024*
Moiré superlattices in van der Waals heterostructures represent a highly tunable quantum system, attracting substantial interest in both many-body physics and device applications. However, the influence of the moiré potential on light-matter …

**[HTML] Synthesis and structure of a non-van-der-Waals two-dimensional coordination polymer with superconductivity**
*Z Pan, X Huang, Y Fan, S Wang, Y Liu, X Cong… - Nature Communications, 2024*
Two-dimensional conjugated coordination polymers exhibit remarkable charge transport properties, with copper-based benzenehexathiol (Cu-BHT) being a rare superconductor. However, the atomic structure of Cu-BHT has remained unresolved …

**[HTML] Unveiling sulfur vacancy pairs as bright and stable color centers in monolayer WS2**
*H Sun, Q Yang, J Wang, M Ding, M Cheng, L Liao… - Nature Communications, 2024*
Color centers, arising from zero-dimensional defects, exploit quantum confinement to access internal electron quantum degrees of freedom, holding potential for quantum technologies. Despite intensive research, the structural origin of many color centers …

**[HTML] Persistent flat band splitting and strong selective band renormalization in a kagome magnet thin film**
*Z Ren, J Huang, H Tan, A Biswas, A Pulkkinen… - Nature Communications, 2024*
Magnetic kagome materials provide a fascinating playground for exploring the interplay of magnetism, correlation and topology. Many magnetic kagome systems have been reported including the binary Fe m X n (X= Sn, Ge; m: n= 3: 1, 3: 2, 1: 1) …

**[HTML] Ultrasensitive dim-light neuromorphic vision sensing via momentum-conserved reconfigurable van der Waals heterostructure**
*L Xu, J Liu, X Guo, S Liu, X Lai, J Wang, M Yu, Z Xie… - Nature Communications, 2024*
Reconfigurable phototransistors featuring bipolar photoresponses are favorable for manipulating high-performance neuromorphic vision sensory. Here, we present a momentum-conserved reconfigurable phototransistor based on the van der Waals …

**[HTML] Single-crystalline High-κ GdOCl dielectric for two-dimensional field-effect transistors**
*W Xu, J Jiang, Y Chen, N Tang, C Jiang, S Yang - Nature Communications, 2024*
Abstract Two-dimensional (2D) dielectrics, integrated with high-mobility semiconductors, show great promise to overcome the scaling limits in miniaturized integrated circuits. However, the 2D dielectrics explored to date still face the …

**Light-emitting diodes based on intercalated transition metal dichalcogenides with suppressed efficiency roll-off at high generation rates**
*S Wang, Q Fu, T Zheng, X Han, H Wang, T Zhou, J Liu… - Nature Electronics, 2024*
The capabilities of light-emitting diodes (LEDs) based on two-dimensional materials are restricted by efficiency roll-off, which is induced by exciton–exciton annihilation, at high current densities. Dielectric or strain engineering can be used to reduce …

**Superconductivity in twisted bilayer WSe2**
*Y Xia, Z Han, K Watanabe, T Taniguchi, J Shan… - Nature, 2024*
Moiré materials have enabled the realization of flat electron bands and quantum phases that are driven by the strong correlations associated with flat bands 1, 2, 3, 4. Superconductivity has been observed, but only in graphene moiré materials 5, 6, 7 …

**[HTML] Synthesis and structure of a non-van-der-Waals two-dimensional coordination polymer with superconductivity**
*Z Pan, X Huang, Y Fan, S Wang, Y Liu, X Cong… - Nature Communications, 2024*
Two-dimensional conjugated coordination polymers exhibit remarkable charge transport properties, with copper-based benzenehexathiol (Cu-BHT) being a rare superconductor. However, the atomic structure of Cu-BHT has remained unresolved …

**[HTML] Moiré-engineered light-matter interactions in MoS2/WSe2 heterobilayers at room temperature**
*Q Lin, H Fang, A Kalaboukhov, Y Liu, Y Zhang… - Nature Communications, 2024*
Moiré superlattices in van der Waals heterostructures represent a highly tunable quantum system, attracting substantial interest in both many-body physics and device applications. However, the influence of the moiré potential on light-matter …

**[HTML] Artificial superconducting Kondo lattice in a van der Waals heterostructure**
*K Fan, H Jin, B Huang, G Duan, R Yu, ZY Liu, HN Xia… - Nature Communications, 2024*
Engineering Kondo lattice with tailored functionality is desirable for elucidating the heavy fermion physics. We realize the construction of an artificial Kondo lattice/superconductor heterojunction by growing monolayer VSe2 on bulk 2H-NbSe2 with …

**High-performance p-type field-effect transistors using substitutional doping and thickness control of two-dimensional materials**
*M Das, D Sen, NU Sakib, H Ravichandran, Y Sun… - Nature Electronics, 2024*
In silicon field-effect transistors (FETs), degenerate doping of the channel beneath the source and drain regions is used to create high-performance n-and p-type devices by reducing the contact resistance. Two-dimensional semiconductors have …

**[HTML] High-throughput screening and machine learning classification of van der Waals dielectrics for 2D nanoelectronics**
*Y Li, G Wan, Y Zhu, J Yang, YF Zhang, J Pan, S Du - Nature Communications, 2024*
Van der Waals (vdW) dielectrics are promising for enhancing the performance of nanoscale field-effect transistors (FETs) based on two-dimensional (2D) semiconductors due to their clean interfaces. Ideal vdW dielectrics for 2D FETs …

**[HTML] A nonvolatile magnon field effect transistor at room temperature**
*J Cheng, R Yu, L Sun, K He, T Ji, M Yang, Z Zhang… - Nature Communications, 2024*
Abstract Information industry is one of the major drivers of the world economy. Its rapid growth, however, leads to severe heat problem which strongly hinders further development. This calls for a non-charge-based technology. Magnon, capable of …

**[HTML] Large unidirectional spin Hall magnetoresistance in FeNi/Pt/Bi2Se3 trilayers by Pt interfacial engineering**
*Q Zhang, K Tao, C Jia, G Xu, G Chai, Y Zuo, B Cui… - Nature Communications, 2024*
Unidirectional spin Hall magnetoresistance (USMR) has emerged as a promising candidate for magnetoresistive random-access memory (MRAM) technology. However, the realization of high signal-to-noise output signal in USMR devices has …

**[HTML] Fractional quantum Hall phases in high-mobility n-type molybdenum disulfide transistors**
*S Zhao, J Huang, V Crépel, Z Xiong, X Wu, T Zhang… - Nature Electronics, 2024*
Transistors based on semiconducting transition metal dichalcogenides can, in theory, offer high carrier mobilities, strong spin–orbit coupling and inherently strong electronic interactions at the quantum ground states. This makes them well suited for …

**[HTML] Non-volatile Fermi level tuning for the control of spin-charge conversion at room temperature**
*J Choi, J Park, S Noh, J Lee, S Lee, D Choe, H Jung… - Nature Communications, 2024*
Current silicon-based CMOS devices face physical limitations in downscaling size and power loss, restricting their capability to meet the demands for data storage and information processing of emerging technologies. One possible alternative is to …

**[HTML] Ultralow-pressure-driven polarization switching in ferroelectric membranes**
*X Yang, L Han, H Ning, S Xu, B Hao, YC Li, T Li, Y Gao… - Nature Communications, 2024*
Van der Waals integration of freestanding perovskite-oxide membranes with two-dimensional semiconductors has emerged as a promising strategy for developing high-performance electronics, such as field-effect transistors. In these innovative field …

**Superconductivity in twisted bilayer WSe2**
*Y Xia, Z Han, K Watanabe, T Taniguchi, J Shan… - Nature, 2024*
Moiré materials have enabled the realization of flat electron bands and quantum phases that are driven by the strong correlations associated with flat bands 1, 2, 3, 4. Superconductivity has been observed, but only in graphene moiré materials 5, 6, 7 …

**[HTML] Large superconducting diode effect in ion-beam patterned Sn-based superconductor nanowire/topological Dirac semimetal planar heterostructures**
*LD Anh, K Ishihara, T Hotta, K Inagaki, H Maki, T Saeki… - Nature Communications, 2024*
High-quality superconductor/topological material heterostructures are highly desired for realisation of topological superconductivity and Majorana physics. Here, we demonstrate a method to directly draw nanoscale superconducting β-Sn patterns in …

**[PDF] CMOS-compatible strain engineering for monolayer semiconductor transistors**
*M Jaikissoon, Ç Köroğlu, JA Yang, K Neilson… - Nature Electronics, 2024*
Strain engineering has played a key role in modern silicon electronics, having been introduced as a mobility booster in the 1990s and commercialized in the early 2000s. Achieving similar advances with two-dimensional (2D) semiconductors in a …

**Strain tuning of vestigial three-state Potts nematicity in a correlated antiferromagnet**
*K Hwangbo, E Rosenberg, J Cenker, Q Jiang, H Wen… - Nature Physics, 2024*
Electronic nematicity is a state of matter in which rotational symmetry is spontaneously broken and translational symmetry is preserved. In strongly correlated materials, nematicity often emerges from fluctuations of a multicomponent primary …

**Perovskite microcavities spin the light**
*A Amo - Nature Materials, 2024*
Perovskite microcavities spin the light | Nature Materials Skip to main content Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date …

**[HTML] High-throughput screening and machine learning classification of van der Waals dielectrics for 2D nanoelectronics**
*Y Li, G Wan, Y Zhu, J Yang, YF Zhang, J Pan, S Du - Nature Communications, 2024*
Van der Waals (vdW) dielectrics are promising for enhancing the performance of nanoscale field-effect transistors (FETs) based on two-dimensional (2D) semiconductors due to their clean interfaces. Ideal vdW dielectrics for 2D FETs …

**Tunable spin–orbit physics in van der Waals heterostructures**
*MI Katsnelson - Nature Materials, 2024*
Tunable spin–orbit physics in van der Waals heterostructures | Nature Materials Skip to main content Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain the best experience, we recommend you use a more …

**[HTML] Polarization photodetectors with configurable polarity transition enabled by programmable ferroelectric-doping patterns**
*S Wu, J Deng, X Wang, J Zhou, H Jiao, Q Zhao, T Lin… - Nature Communications, 2024*
Advances in symmetry-breaking engineering of heterointerfaces for optoelectronic devices have garnered significant attention due to their immense potential in tunable moiré quantum geometry and enabling polarization light detection. Despite several …

**Coherent optical spin Hall transport for polaritonics at room temperature**
*Y Shi, Y Gan, Y Chen, Y Wang, S Ghosh, A Kavokin… - Nature Materials, 2024*
Spin or valley degrees of freedom hold promise for next-generation spintronics. Nonetheless, the macroscopic coherent spin current formations are still hindered by rapid dephasing due to electron scattering, specifically at room temperature. Exciton …

**[HTML] Spin waves and orbital contribution to ferromagnetism in a topological metal**
*W Zhang, TC Asmara, Y Tseng, J Li, Y Xiong, Y Wei… - Nature Communications, 2024*
Honeycomb and kagome lattices can host propagating excitations with non-trivial topology as defined by their evolution along closed paths in momentum space. Excitations on such lattices can also be momentum-independent, and the associated …

# Advanced Materials

**Ultrafast Charge and Exciton Diffusion in Monolayer Films of 9-Armchair Graphene Nanoribbons**
*S Varghese, JD Mehew, HI Wang, M Wuttke, Y Zhou… - Advanced materials (Deerfield …*
Determining the electronic transport properties of graphene nanoribbons is crucial for assessing their suitability for applications. So far, this has been highly challenging both through experimental and theoretical approaches. This is particularly the case …

**[PDF] Gate‐Tunable Exchange Bias and Volage‐Controlled Magnetization Switching in a van der Waals Ferromagnet**
*M Sharma, G Avedissian, W Skowroński, J Jo… - Advanced Materials …, 2024*
The discovery of van der Waals magnets has established a new domain in the field of magnetism, opening novel pathways for the electrical control of magnetic properties. In this context, Fe3GeTe2 (FGT) emerges as an exemplary candidate …

**[PDF] Photonic Synapse of CrSBr/PtS2 Transistor for Neuromorphic Computing and Light Decoding**
*MA Khan, MF Khan, M Nasim, E Elahi, M Rabeel… - Advanced Functional Materials*
Field effect transistors based on 2D layered material have gained significant potential in emerging technologies, such as neuromorphic computing and ultrafast memory response for artificial intelligence applications. This study proposes a facile …

**[PDF] Indirect‐To‐Direct Bandgap Crossover and Room‐Temperature Valley Polarization of Multilayer MoS2 Achieved by Electrochemical Intercalation**
*M Jo, E Lee, E Moon, BG Jang, J Kim, KP Dhakal, S Oh… - Advanced Materials, 2024*
Monolayer (1L) group VI transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDs) exhibit broken inversion symmetry and strong spin‐orbit coupling, offering promising applications in optoelectronics and valleytronics. Despite their direct bandgap, high absorption …

**Bidirectional Photovoltage‐Driven Oxide Transistors for Neuromorphic Visual Sensors**
*C Jin, J Wang, S Yang, Y Ding, J Chang, W Liu, Y Xu… - Advanced Materials, 2024*
Biological vision is one of the most important parts of the human perception system. However, emulating biological visuals is challenging because it requires complementary photoexcitation and photoinhibition. Here, the study presents a …

**Detecting and Imaging of Magnons at Nanoscale with van der Waals Quantum Sensor**
*HX Zang, W Jiang, NJ Guo, Y Liu, MQ Ma, ZW Liu… - Advanced Functional …, 2024*
Magnonic devices are extensively studied for energy‐efficient information processing. High spatial resolution and high accuracy measurement is required to characterize the excitation and distribution of magnons. Here, sensing and imaging …

**[PDF] Gate‐Tunable Exchange Bias and Volage‐Controlled Magnetization Switching in a van der Waals Ferromagnet**
*M Sharma, G Avedissian, W Skowroński, J Jo… - Advanced Materials …, 2024*
The discovery of van der Waals magnets has established a new domain in the field of magnetism, opening novel pathways for the electrical control of magnetic properties. In this context, Fe3GeTe2 (FGT) emerges as an exemplary candidate …

**[PDF] Vacancies Engineering in Molybdenum Boride MBene Nanosheets to Activate Room‐Temperature Ferromagnetism**
*L Zhang, S Xing, T He, WB Wu, A Zhang, Z Guo, P Das… - Advanced Materials, 2024*
The rapid development of low energy dissipation spintronic devices has stimulated the search for air‐stable 2D nanomaterials possessing room‐temperature ferromagnetism. Here the experimental realization of 2D Mo4/3B2 nanosheets is …

**Robust Electric‐Field Control of Colossal Exchange Bias in CrI3 Homotrilayer**
*Y Niu, Z Liu, K Wang, W Ai, T Gong, T Liu, L Bi… - Advanced Materials*
Controlling exchange bias (EB) by electric fields is crucial for next‐generation magnetic random access memories and spintronics with ultralow energy consumption and ultrahigh speed. Multiferroic heterostructures have been …

**Field‐Free Spin‐Orbit Torque Switching in Perpendicularly Magnetized Ta/CoFeB/MgO/NiO/Ta with a Canted Antiferromagnetic Insulator NiO Interlayer**
*Z Zhang, Z Li, Y Chen, F Zhu, Y Yan, Y Li, L He, J Du… - Advanced Functional …, 2024*
In this study, deterministic current‐induced spin‐orbit torque (SOT) magnetization switching is achieved, particularly in systems with perpendicular magnetic anisotropy (PMA), without the need for a collinear in‐plane field, a traditionally challenging …

**[PDF] Picometer‐Level In Situ Manipulation of Ferroelectric Polarization in Van der Waals layered InSe**
*H Gao, Z Liu, Y Gong, C Ke, N Guo, J Wu, X Zeng… - Advanced Materials, 2024*
Ferroelectric 2D van der Waals (vdW) layered materials are attracting increasing attention due to their potential applications in next‐generation nanoelectronics and in‐memory computing with polarization‐dependent functionalities. Despite the …

**[PDF] Human Memory‐Inspired MoS2/BST Ferroelectric Phototransistor with Synchronous Sensory, Short‐Term and Long‐Term Memories**
*C Tan, H Wu, Z Lin, J Liu, L Yang, L Gao, Z Wang - Advanced Functional Materials*
The collaborative working mode of different memory patterns–sensory, short‐term, and long‐term memories–in the human brain is significantly efficient and economical. This work reproduces the three memory patterns synchronously with the …

**Intertwined Flexoelectricity and Stacking Ferroelectricity in Marginally Twisted hBN Moiré Superlattice**
*S Wan, H Huang, H Liu, H Liu, Z Li, Y Li, Z Liao… - Advanced Materials, 2024*
Moiré superlattices in twisted van der Waals homo/heterostructures present a fascinating interplay between electronic and atomic structures, with potential applications in electronic and optoelectronic devices. Flexoelectricity, an …

**[PDF] Dirac‐Like Fermions Anomalous Magneto‐Transport in a Spin‐Polarized Oxide 2D Electron System**
*Y Chen, M D'Antuono, M Trama, D Preziosi, B Jouault… - Advanced Materials, 2024*
In a 2D electron system (2DES) the breaking of the inversion, time‐reversal and bulk crystal‐field symmetries is interlaced with the effects of spin‐orbit coupling (SOC) triggering exotic quantum phenomena. Here, epitaxial engineering is used to design …

**Intertwined Flexoelectricity and Stacking Ferroelectricity in Marginally Twisted hBN Moiré Superlattice**
*S Wan, H Huang, H Liu, H Liu, Z Li, Y Li, Z Liao… - Advanced Materials, 2024*
Moiré superlattices in twisted van der Waals homo/heterostructures present a fascinating interplay between electronic and atomic structures, with potential applications in electronic and optoelectronic devices. Flexoelectricity, an …

**Tunable Anomalous Hall Effect in Broken–Symmetry Integrated Perovskite/Brownmillerite Superlattices**
*X Jia, Y Liang, L Wu, Y Zhang, Y Chen, CW Nan, D Yi… - Advanced Functional …, 2024*
The anomalous Hall effect (AHE), a hallmark of broken time–reversal symmetry, serves as a powerful tool for probing magnetic states and elucidating complex spin–orbit interactions in transition metal oxides. It is reported here that the emergence of …

**Full van der Waals Ambipolar Ferroelectric Configurable Optical Hetero‐Synapses for In‐Sensor Computing**
*J Bai, D He, B Dang, K Liu, Z Yang, J Wang, X Zhang… - Advanced Materials, 2024*
The rapid development of visual neuromorphic hardware can be attributed to their ability to capture, store and process optical signals from the environment. The main limitation of existing visual neuromorphic hardware is that the realization of complex …

**Full van der Waals Ambipolar Ferroelectric Configurable Optical Hetero‐Synapses for In‐Sensor Computing**
*J Bai, D He, B Dang, K Liu, Z Yang, J Wang, X Zhang… - Advanced Materials, 2024*
The rapid development of visual neuromorphic hardware can be attributed to their ability to capture, store and process optical signals from the environment. The main limitation of existing visual neuromorphic hardware is that the realization of complex …

**[PDF] Magnetic Field‐Induced Polar Order in Monolayer Molybdenum Disulfide Transistors**
*D Hao, WH Chang, YC Chang, WT Liu, SZ Ho, CH Lu… - Advanced Materials, 2024*
In semiconducting monolayer transition metal dichalcogenides (ML‐TMDs), broken inversion symmetry and strong spin‐orbit coupling result in spin‐valley lock‐in effects so that the valley degeneracy may be lifted by external magnetic fields …

**Strained van der Waals Metallic Magnet for Photomagnetic Modulation and Spin Photodiode Application**
*L Hu, F Liu, Q Quan, C Lu, S Yu, L Li - Advanced Functional Materials, 2024*
All‐optical magnetization reversal provides a low‐power approach for investigating spin state manipulation in 2D magnets. However, the ambient observation of photomagnetic coupling presents significant challenges due to the low Curie …

**Field‐Free Spin‐Orbit Torque Switching in Perpendicularly Magnetized Ta/CoFeB/MgO/NiO/Ta with a Canted Antiferromagnetic Insulator NiO Interlayer**
*Z Zhang, Z Li, Y Chen, F Zhu, Y Yan, Y Li, L He, J Du… - Advanced Functional …, 2024*
In this study, deterministic current‐induced spin‐orbit torque (SOT) magnetization switching is achieved, particularly in systems with perpendicular magnetic anisotropy (PMA), without the need for a collinear in‐plane field, a traditionally challenging …

**Interfacial Stress Transfer and Fracture in van der Waals Heterostructures**
*Z Li, M Liu, P Kumar, Z Chang, G Qi, P He, Y Wei… - Advanced Materials, 2024*
Artificially stacking 2D materials (2DMs) into vdW heterostructures creates materials with properties not present in nature that offer great potential for various applications such as flexible electronics. Properties of such stacked structures are controlled …

**A Low‐Dimensional Donor‐Acceptor Perovskite for High‐Performance X‐Ray Detection**
*W Pan, W Li, J Zong, H Hu, K Guo, C Li, W Qu, H Wei - Advanced Functional Materials, 2024*
Perovskite materials hold significant promise for X‐ray detection due to their high X‐ray attenuation coefficient, efficient charge mobility, and tunable compositions and optoelectronic properties. Nonetheless, extracting the charges deep inside the thick …

**[PDF] Ultrafast Charge and Exciton Diffusion in Monolayer Films of 9‐Armchair Graphene Nanoribbons**
*S Varghese, JD Mehew, HI Wang, M Wuttke, Y Zhou… - Advanced Materials, 2024*
Determining the electronic transport properties of graphene nanoribbons is crucial for assessing their suitability for applications. So far, this has been highly challenging both through experimental and theoretical approaches. This is particularly the case …

**Durable Photo‐Pyroelectric Detection in a Diamine‐Constructed Lead‐Free Hybrid Perovskite Ferroelectric**
*Y Wang, H Ye, P Wang, Z Wu, Q Guan, C Zhang, H Li… - Advanced Materials, 2024*
As a subcategory of pyroelectric materials, hybrid perovskite ferroelectrics possess substantial pyroelectric properties and exceptional light absorption characteristics, demonstrating significant potential in the photo‐pyroelectric (PPE) detection field …

# Science

**Bright dipolar excitons in twisted black phosphorus homostructures**
*S Huang, B Yu, Y Ma, C Pan, J Ma, Y Zhou, Y Ma… - Science, 2024*
Bright dipolar excitons, which contain electrical dipoles and have high oscillator strength, are an ideal platform for studying correlated quantum phenomena. They usually rely on carrier tunneling between two quantum wells or two layers to …

**[HTML] Van der Waals integrated single-junction light-emitting diodes exceeding 10% quantum efficiency at room temperature**
*Z Hu, Q Fu, J Lu, Y Zhang, Q Zhang, S Wang, Z Duan… - Science Advances, 2024*
The construction of miniaturized light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with high external quantum efficiency (EQE) at room temperature remains a challenge for on-chip optoelectronics. Here, we demonstrate microsized LEDs fabricated by a dry-transfer …

**Polar and quasicrystal vortex observed in twisted-bilayer molybdenum disulfide**
*CS Tsang, X Zheng, T Yang, Z Yan, W Han, LW Wong… - Science, 2024*
We report the observation of an electric field in twisted-bilayer molybdenum disulfide (MoS2) and elucidate its correlation with local polar domains using four-dimensional scanning transmission electron microscopy (4D-STEM) and first-principles …

**[HTML] Nonlinear edge transport in a quantum Hall system**
*H Isobe, N Nagaosa - Science Advances, 2024*
Nonlinear transport phenomena in condensed matter reflect the geometric nature, quantum coherence, and many-body correlation of electronic states. Electric currents in solids are classified into (i) ohmic current,(ii) supercurrent, and (iii) geometric or …

**Bright dipolar excitons in twisted black phosphorus homostructures**
*S Huang, B Yu, Y Ma, C Pan, J Ma, Y Zhou, Y Ma… - Science, 2024*
Bright dipolar excitons, which contain electrical dipoles and have high oscillator strength, are an ideal platform for studying correlated quantum phenomena. They usually rely on carrier tunneling between two quantum wells or two layers to …

**[PDF] Bright dipolar excitons in twisted black phosphorus homostructures**
*S Huang, B Yu, Y Ma, C Pan, J Ma, Y Zhou, Y Ma… - Science, 2024*
Bright dipolar excitons, which contain electrical dipoles and have high oscillator strength, are an ideal platform for studying correlated quantum phenomena. They usually rely on carrier tunneling between two quantum wells or two layers to …

# Physical Review Letters

**Reconstruction of Surface Electron Spectrum and Cyclotron Motion in the Charge Density Wave Phase of Weyl Semimetals**
*AA Grigoreva, AV Andreev, LI Glazman - Physical Review Letters, 2024*
Charge density wave (CDW) instability drastically affects the surface electron spectrum of a Weyl semimetal. We show that in the CDW phase, the Fermi arcs reconnect into either closed Fermi loops or Frieze patterns traversing the …

**Ferroelectric Semimetals with α-Bi/SnSe van der Waals Heterostructures and Their Topological Currents**
*DJP De Sousa, S Lee, Q Lu, RG Moore, M Brahlek… - Physical Review Letters, 2024*
We show that proximity effects can be utilized to engineer van der Waals heterostructures (vdWHs) displaying semimetallic spin-ferroelectricity locking, where ferroelectricity and semimetallic spin states are confined to different layers, but are …

**Ferroelectric Semimetals with α-Bi/SnSe van der Waals Heterostructures and Their Topological Currents**
*DJP De Sousa, S Lee, Q Lu, RG Moore, M Brahlek… - Physical Review Letters, 2024*
We show that proximity effects can be utilized to engineer van der Waals heterostructures (vdWHs) displaying semimetallic spin-ferroelectricity locking, where ferroelectricity and semimetallic spin states are confined to different layers, but are …

**Low-Energy Optical Sum Rule in Moiré Graphene**
*JF Mendez-Valderrama, D Mao, D Chowdhury - Physical Review Letters, 2024*
Few layers of graphene at small twist angles have emerged as a fascinating platform for studying the problem of strong interactions in regimes with a nearly quenched single-particle kinetic energy and nontrivial band topology. Starting from the strong …

**[PDF] Quantized Integrated Shift Effect in Multigap Topological Phases**
*WJ Jankowski, RJ Slager - Physical Review Letters, 2024*
We show that certain three-dimensional multigap topological insulators can host quantized integrated shift photoconductivities due to bulk invariants that are defined under reality conditions imposed by additional symmetries. We recast the …

**Fermi and Luttinger Arcs: Two Concepts, Realized on One Surface**
*P Worm, M Reitner, K Held, A Toschi - Physical Review Letters, 2024*
We present an analytically solvable model for correlated electrons, which is able to capture the major Fermi surface modifications occurring in both hole-and electron-doped cuprates as a function of doping. The proposed Hamiltonian qualitatively …

**[PDF] Electrical Excitation and Detection of Chiral Magnons in a Compensated Ferrimagnetic Insulator**
*L Wang, L Shen, H Bai, HA Zhou, K Shen, W Jiang - Physical Review Letters, 2024*
Magnon chirality refers to the precessional handedness of magnetization around the external magnetic field, which is fixed as right-handed in ferromagnets. Compensated ferrimagnets accommodate parallel and antiparallel configurations of …

**Intrinsic Magnetocrystalline Anisotropy Induced 3 m-Symmetry Dependent Field-Free Switching in Epitaxial Garnet Films**
*J Ke, D Zhang, LZ Bi, Z Li, S Zhou, P Wang, Z Zhu… - Physical Review Letters, 2024*
The electrical control of perpendicular magnetization without the need for external magnetic fields holds significant potential for next-generation spintronic devices. In this Letter, we have identified a 3 m-symmetry dependent field-free switching …

**Intrinsic Magnetocrystalline Anisotropy Induced 3 m-Symmetry Dependent Field-Free Switching in Epitaxial Garnet Films**
*J Ke, D Zhang, LZ Bi, Z Li, S Zhou, P Wang, Z Zhu… - Physical Review Letters, 2024*
The electrical control of perpendicular magnetization without the need for external magnetic fields holds significant potential for next-generation spintronic devices. In this Letter, we have identified a 3 m-symmetry dependent field-free switching …

